Welcome back lovely God people in this video we're going to start putting some serious functionality
in our game.
We're done pretty well so far right we can ask the play for prompts.
We can put those prompts into a story we can display them back and we can restart the game as needed
in this video we can use the awesome power of dictionaries to create a story template we can have several
stories and pick them randomly.
Were pretty close to feature complete.
To do that we need to learn about dictionaries.
There are different ways we can solve this.
Dictionaries are the one I'm going with for this video.
We're going to convert our story and our prompt variables into a single dictionary.
That's right.
No longer we need those two different variables.
We need a single variable that has a dictionary with both the story and the prompt inside them.
Then we're going to turn our dictionary into an array of dictionaries.
It's going to get all kinds of inception in here.
Then we need to update our script to actually read the new dictionary were at work and pick a random
story.
Lots of cool stuff.
Let's get to it.
So the obvious place to start is what is a dictionary.
We've looked at the concept of a variable as Ben describes a variable.
It's a box.
So here is my variable.
Now variables can have all kinds of different things in them and there are different types.
There are strings in our floats and are integers and are billions and there are arrays.
Technically an array is a special type of variable.
And we've looked at an array as a shelf and the shelf can hold as many separate boxes as we need right
here.
A badly drawn boxes and we know how to use arrays right because each one of these is a value and that's
value 0 and that's value 1 and that's value too.
Right so we have an index of where these values are.
A dictionary expands on that.
So if I have my dictionary dictionaries are a little bit different.
They work like a race but they have one additional thing.
So every entry here is a value.
But what if it's not just a value.
It's a key Plus a value.
So every entry has a unique key.
Could be one two three.
Could be donkey monkey hedgehog.
Terrible handwriting right now.
And the values can be anything we want.
Now this can get really useful not just for a story game.
Let's say you're creating an inventory system right you have one of a drag and drop grid based systems.
And I could add another shovel in here and I could put a pickaxe in here and axson here because all
survival games have these things apparently.
Well I can tell the code is that this is Gooly position 1 or 2 position 1 2 3 and inside that here is
the values the value is a shovel a pick axe or an axe.
Dictionary is a great.
So how long.
Well what I want to do is to put them inside curly brackets.
If I'm using square brackets that's an array.
If I'm using curly brackets G grip knows this is a dictionary which is great news for C language people
so C sharp C++ and all the other variants.
Because when you're sitting there going Dude where are my curly brackets.
Dude they are right here.
OK so we need to make a dictionary.
If we make it an array we just need to put the values in the entries.
Right so a value one comma value two and we can keep adding commas as needed in a dictionary.
We're going to do the same thing but we're going to pair a key and a value key colon value this colon
tells it.
These two things are paid.
The key is always on the left.
The value is always in the right keys have to be unique.
OK so far so what how does this help us.
Well we don't need to call this my dictionary.
We can call it corrent story and we don't need to just call it key value key value because it's not
helpful.
Instead we can call it prompt and link that to an array and story and link that to a string.
Let's look at what it looks like in the script.
Here we are back in our lovely lovely script and the first thing I need to do is actually create our
dictionary.
So let's create one called current story because that's what we're making right here is our story.
Later on the video will make a template system but for now let's just get this working.
Okay.
And this is going to be a dictionary to make this easier to read.
I'm going to separate them.
Dictionaries allow you to do this right we can format the inside of a dictionary to make them a little
bit more readable.
And I'm not going to use two indents because that's the convention in Judy's script to tell us this
is within this one variable this one dictionary.
Right.
Two indents tells the reader this isn't split up because it's part of a code block.
This is split up for readability.
OK what needs to go in here prompt.
Now I'm going to put this inside some quotes and I'm doing this specifically because I don't need this
to be a variable.
Right.
So I'm good so don't worry about what this value is just treat it as a string and I'm going to link
it to a value so his makki It's called prompt and one of do is copy that and there it is prompt is our
key.
And the array of prompts is our value.
OK.
So next thing comma.
Right.
I'm going to make a new entry in the dictionary and I going to create a story.
And that's the key.
Let's put the space between them nice and legible and let's just copy this.
So.
And paste.
There it is.
And I'm going to put a couple of tabs there so I can easily see it looks much more legible to me so
now we don't need these very what's right would any profit or story because they're within current story.
So let's get rid of them entirely.
Lines four and five.
Goodbye.
Right now we have a dictionary if we run this game it won't work.
The reason is whenever we're looking for prompt we're looking for a variable called prompt and I've
just removed it.
So what I need to do is tell it look at the key code prompt within current story had to do that.
I mean click here on prompt.
What do current the school story dot prompt.
Right.
So current story that's a dictionary.
So want to do dot the next thing is going to be the key.
The current story prompt playworks Size just like before.
Now I need to go through the script and replace every time it's looking for these prompts.
With that and every time is looking for the story with that you might be tempted to use control.
Ah which is find a replacement type in story or prompt.
I would seriously recommend that you don't do that in the default idae E in the default code writing
egd script.
It is not easy.
Click on prompt and just change those prompts and not change prompt player right which is what's going
to happen if I change prompt to current story prompt replace all.
I've now changed everything and that won't work right I can't change a function name to current story
Doc prompt.
So let's do this manually We only have a few instances.
We have this one in ready and we have this next one which is going to be in where is it story done derrida's
WITNESS.
Close that replace thing I don't like it.
There it is.
Current and a Scott story.
Dot promises.
Fantastic.
And of course in prompt player right.
We when we promised the player where we prompt it from current oscorp story not prompt.
Finally Intel's story.
That story is now a key within the dictionary.
So let's hope that here's a dictionary current school story dot story and that should work this wind
up.
I love it when a plan comes together.
Fantastic.
So now we have this functionality.
Let's put it to good use right.
Let's create a template variable something to rename current story template if I can't remember how
to spell.
Good Lord yeah and let's create a current story.
Don't forget to do this bit because otherwise we won't know what the current story's template isn't
going to be a dictionary it's going to be multiple dictionaries right.
We'll have several of these dictionaries to get the prompts and stories linked.
How can I do that.
Well we know how to do that we're going to create an array an array of dictionaries.
Dun dun da.
Let's put that over there so I can see it.
All I need to do is every time I want to add a new story I'll just put a comma in.
As duplicate this which I will do with control B.
I probably don't need that comma there.
Make it nice and neat.
Now I just need to create a brave new story which is my challenge to you.
I would like you to add to our template all I'd like you to do is create at least one more story that
goes within the template.
Remember the easiest way to do this is to write your story as a string and then look for the word you
want to replace replace them with 3 percent.
S That's the format string operator and create your prompts to go with it.
So pause the video right at least one more story within your templates array and when you come back
I'll show you how I do it.
Welcome back.
Okay let's first remove all the stuff in the string so stories empty.
Remove everything and prompt prompter's that day.
So let's go now.
Once was a thing called name that live as a..
As a noun there once was a.
Think so.
Get rid of a thing that's going to be.
Percent.
That's great.
Called let's copy you turn that into n small.
A name.
That lived as a..
I discovered that many people don't know the what adjectives so let's call it a description word an
adjective that lived as free as a noun.
So that's another one of those.
And that goes like this.
What was it now.
A thing they're going to do it on a full stop at the edge of that great here is our second story.
I've actually written five more of these.
So just to make it complete I'm going to fast for a little bit and put them in.
Okay here we are a whole bunch of stories in here.
So let's just minimize that for now.
I don't need all those lines of code so this little arrowheads click on that you see the dot dot dot
it's hiding stuff and you can see line for jumps Slide 31.
And let's put a gap between our variables and office function.
Okay.
We now have a template with a whole slew of stories and we are going to make that easier to read and
future video.
What can we do to make a random's.
What we do to pick a random story for current story.
Well the first thing we need to do is tell it what current story is right.
Current story equals something find out who wrote Zero so doesn't throw a fit.
That's not what's going to equal that's just a place holder.
What do we need to do.
I need to pick a random number.
How random is a little tough to do with computers right.
Computers are not very good at random.
Human brains are not that good at random either.
But computers aren't good at it.
What they tend to do is they generate a random seed so they generate a random seed.
You need to use a randomized.
There is some brackets.
Randomize is creating new random seed every time you generate something random.
It's going to use the same seed.
So if you needed to pick a different random number than the last time you need to run randomise again
for our purposes were only running at once in the script on ready.
And the reason we're only running at once is because the next time we play the game we're going through
the whole script anyway so we're just going to go back to read it.
So we have randomise what's current story going to be kind of story.
It's going to be something from template and template is giving something within the array template
was going to be it's gonna be a random integer number an integer is a number that has no decimal points.
So what that's going to do is it's going to pick a random index position.
Right so the integer is the index position.
So let's look 0 1 2.
Each story is a different entry right and we looked at this.
Okay well we can't just do random number.
You can't just pick any random number.
If we look at the documentation for random integer which would double control and clicking on it you'll
see that the format is random integer percentage and then number and returns a random number between
0 and that number.
If you need it to be between 1 and the number you need to add 1 to it.
In programming we count from zero right so random integer percentage 20 means start from zero and count
20 random things.
Pick one of them so that's what it's going to pick between 0 and 19 which is perfect.
That's just what we need.
So pick a random number sent from template dot size like count how many things are in template.
That's your upper limit.
Generate the random thing so that should work.
You'll find out.
Let's find out.
Can I have a noun donkey.
Ben likes donkey let's use dungheap can have an adjective a description word delicious.
Another No.
2 Can you like make two cans.
Yet another noun headphones.
Now just look around my desk.
Humans are not very good at random.
An adjective polite.
And one more noun.
Smart car.
Get a verb to fly.
The order of a pizza recipe makes one packet of Dunky with three spoonfuls of flour.
Neither dough for three minutes until delicious.
Roll the dough flat on on a two can and sprinkle one pinch of headphone and three cups of plate Smart
Car big for 70 minutes on a high heat and then remove from the oven and to fly.
So to fly and the look we have random stories based on the templates in this video.
We've looked at the awesome power of dictionaries and g.d. script.
Great for any kind of two dimensional array.
We've looked at nesting dictionaries in arrays so a dictionary with a dictionary an array with a dictionary
dictionary with an array array with an array and any combination you want.
Right.
Turtles all the way down and we've looked at how to generate random integers all of which are really
strong foundational skills.
So great work.
See you in the next video.